README.md, before:

# meta-slb9670-rpi

Yocto layer for Letstrust TPM2.0 Module and RaspberryPi.

It allows you to support the SLB9670 TPM2.0 with your RaspberryPi (Tested with RaspberryPi4).

It also gives an Image for quick start tests.

## Quick links

* Article related to this layer <https://ubs_csse.gitlab.io/secu_os/tutorials/tpm_rpi.html>
* Letstrust website <https://letstrust.de/>
* Meta Security <https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/meta-security>
* Meta RaspberryPi <https://github.com/agherzan/meta-raspberrypi>
* Patch for U-Boot and Device Tree <https://github.com/joholl/rpi4-uboot-tpm>

## Dependencies

  URI: <https://github.com/agherzan/meta-raspberrypi.git>
  branch: **dunfell**

  URI: <git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-security>
  branch: **dunfell**

## Quick Start

* source poky/oe-init-build-env rpi-build
* Add this layer to bblayers.conf and the dependencies above
* Set MACHINE in local.conf to one of the supported RaspberryPi Boards
* bitbake core-image-slb9670-rpi
* dd to a SD card the generated sdimg file (use xzcat if rpi-sdimg.xz is used)
* Plug the TPM Header on the right pins
* Boot your RPI.

## U-Boot test

```bash
U-Boot> tpm2 init
tpm_tis_spi_probe() SPI TPMv2.0 found (vid:15d1, did:001b, rid:16)

U-Boot> tpm2 startup TPM2_SU_CLEAR
U-Boot> tpm2 get_capability 0x6 0x106 0x200 2
Capabilities read from TPM:
Property 0x00000106: 0x534c4239
Property 0x00000107: 0x36373000
```

```python
python3 -c "print(bytes.fromhex('534c423936373000'))"
b'SLB9670\x00'
```

## Tips

Edit your local conf in order to enable U-Boot and support fitImage.

```
MACHINE ??= "raspberrypi4"
ENABLE_UART = "1"
RPI_USE_U_BOOT = "1"
ENABLE_SPI_BUS = "1"
RPI_EXTRA_CONFIG = "dtoverlay=letstrust-tpm"
KERNEL_CLASSES = "kernel-fitimage"
KERNEL_IMAGETYPE = "fitImage"
KERNEL_FITCONFIG = "conf@bcm2711-rpi-4-b.dtb"
KERNEL_BOOTCMD = "bootm"
UBOOT_SIGN_ENABLE = "1"
MACHINE_FEATURES_append = "tpm2"
DISTRO_FEATURES_append = " systemd tpm2 "
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_init_manager = "systemd"
DISTRO_FEATURES_BACKFILL_CONSIDERED = "sysvinit"
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_initscripts = ""
```

## Maintainer

Original Maintainer: Pierre Fontaine <pierre.ftn@pfontaine.fr>

`dunfell` Branch editor: Jason Kolodziej <me@jasonkolodziej>

Commit message:

Update to scarthgap and Raspberry Pi 4 64-bit
Update the README and layer.conf to scarthgap. Add the mainainer
information for the branch. Add the dependencies to the layer.conf.

README.md, after:

# meta-slb9670-rpi

Yocto layer for Letstrust TPM2.0 Module and RaspberryPi.

It allows you to support the SLB9670 TPM2.0 with your RaspberryPi (Tested with RaspberryPi4-64).

It also gives an Image for quick start tests.

## Quick links

* Article related to this layer <https://ubs_csse.gitlab.io/secu_os/tutorials/tpm_rpi.html>
* Letstrust website <https://letstrust.de/>
* Meta Security <https://git.yoctoproject.org/cgit/cgit.cgi/meta-security>
* Meta RaspberryPi <https://github.com/agherzan/meta-raspberrypi>
* Patch for U-Boot and Device Tree <https://github.com/joholl/rpi4-uboot-tpm>

## Dependencies

  URI: <https://github.com/agherzan/meta-raspberrypi.git>
  branch: **scarthgap**

  URI: <git://git.yoctoproject.org/meta-security>
  branch: **scarthgap**

## Quick Start

* source poky/oe-init-build-env rpi-build
* Add this layer to bblayers.conf and the dependencies above
* Set MACHINE in local.conf to one of the supported RaspberryPi Boards
* bitbake core-image-slb9670-rpi
* dd to a SD card the generated sdimg file (use xzcat if rpi-sdimg.xz is used)
* Plug the TPM Header on the right pins
* Boot your RPI.

## U-Boot test

```bash
U-Boot> tpm2 init
tpm_tis_spi_probe() SPI TPMv2.0 found (vid:15d1, did:001b, rid:16)

U-Boot> tpm2 startup TPM2_SU_CLEAR
U-Boot> tpm2 get_capability 0x6 0x106 0x200 2
Capabilities read from TPM:
Property 0x00000106: 0x534c4239
Property 0x00000107: 0x36373000
```

```python
python3 -c "print(bytes.fromhex('534c423936373000'))"
b'SLB9670\x00'
```

## Tips

Edit your local conf in order to enable U-Boot and support fitImage.

```
MACHINE ??= "raspberrypi4-64"
ENABLE_UART = "1"
RPI_USE_U_BOOT = "1"
ENABLE_SPI_BUS = "1"
RPI_EXTRA_CONFIG = "dtoverlay=letstrust-tpm"
KERNEL_CLASSES = "kernel-fitimage"
KERNEL_IMAGETYPE = "fitImage"
KERNEL_FITCONFIG = "conf-bcm2711-rpi-4-b.dtb"
KERNEL_BOOTCMD = "bootm"
UBOOT_SIGN_ENABLE = "1"
MACHINE_FEATURES:append = "tpm2"
DISTRO_FEATURES:append = " systemd tpm2 usrmerge"
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_init_manager = "systemd"
DISTRO_FEATURES_BACKFILL_CONSIDERED = "sysvinit"
VIRTUAL-RUNTIME_initscripts = ""
```

## Maintainer

Original Maintainer: Pierre Fontaine <pierre.ftn@pfontaine.fr>

`scarthgap` Branch editor: ejaaskel <esa.jaaskela@suomi24.fi>
